https://gpsc.arizona.edu/travel-grants#:~:text=Applicants%20must%20be%20University%20of,Travel%20Grants%20per%20academic%20year.

Limited to 1500 words, graded on the included rubric. Also need to generate budget per person and for our group.

Should additionally work together to arrange travel plans.


Description of the event and what I'll be doing there:
CNLS Annual Conference 2022 - Physics Informed Machine Learning

The technological revolution in statistics and machine learning is creating enormous possibilities to discover physics using large datasets. In particular, there is much interest in creating so-called "reduced-order models", models that neglect relevant scales in a physical problem, to enable fast computation of otherwise computationally intractable problems.
The poster child for reduced-order models is turbulence. Turbulence is incredibly computationally intensive to compute - some of the largest super computers in the world are built for the purpose of computing modest turbulence scenarios. If we want to democratize access to high-fidelity fluid dynamics simulations - to serve the goals of faster and better development of everything from airplanes to heart valves - we must have accurate reduced order models.
It is at this juncture that my work lives. I combine state-of-the-art machine learning techniques with centuries of physical insight to enable fast and accurate computation of turbulent flows. The CNLS Conference on Physics Informed Machine Learning is an unparalleled opportunity for me to gain new insights and new ideas on both frontiers of my work. Los Alamos National Labs (and CNLS in particular) is on the forefront of turbulence research.

University of Arizona & Los Alamos Days:
UA/LANL Days is an opportunity for researchers at the two institutions to meet, present their research, learn from one another, and cultivate collaborations. My own work was inspired by a presentation at the 2019 UA/LANL days, and my continuing involvement is a good thing.



In the week of May 10-17, two consecutive conference will be held near the campus of Los Alamos National Laboratory: The Center for Nonlinear Studies Conference in Physics-Informed Machine Learning, and University of Arizona Los Alamos Days. This proposal seeks funding for three graduate students to travel to Los Alamos and attend both conferences.

The Physics Informed Machine Learning conference, hosted in Santa Fe, NM by the Center for Nonlinear Studies (CNLS) at Los Alamos National Laboratory, will unite theorists and practitioners across the applied sciences - from fluid mechanics to energy systems - to share recent advances in Physics-Informed Machine Learning (PIML). PIML blends machine learning models with physical symmetries and assumptions to develop fast, efficient, and interpretable statistical models to approximate physical data. Further, CNLS is uniquely suited to host as they build upon over 40 years of expertise on the forefront of applied science.

Los Alamos--Arizona Days is an opportunity for researchers at the two institutions to meet, present their research, learn from one another, and cultivate collaborations. While this conference will surely give us a chance to reflect and explore applications of topics covered at the CNLS PIML conference, the audience at LANL--AZ Days is much broader. This two-day session spans an enormous range of topics, highlighting the rich collaboration between the two institutions.

We will argue the utility of these conferences first from an individual perspective, and then detail the broader impact to the University of Arizona and the Program in Applied Mathematics.

Person A is moving into their 5th and final year as an applied math PhD student. As they look to transition into a role as a professional researcher, these conferences serve to (1) present and enhance their research "Phsics-Informed Machine Learning with Smoothed Particle Hydrodynamics: Machine Learning Lagrangian Turbulence", (2) network with experts such as Dr. Daniel Livescu and Dr. Yifeng Tian, to explore future collaborations, and (3) establish foundations for future career opportunities at Los Alamos National Laboratory.

Person B is coming into their 4th year as an applied math PhD student, and is excited to use the PIML conference to (1) hone in on a dissertation topic, (2) present their research "Physics-Informed Machine Learning of the Coarse-Grained Velocity Gradient Tensor", (3) learn about the most recent advances in the field of PIML. Further, the LA--AZ days will serve to (4) broaden their research horizons, and (5) investigate opportunities for internships and staff positions. Finally, individual meetings with Dr. Daniel Livescu, Dr. Yifeng Tian, Dr. Anatoly Zlotnik, and Dr. Kaarthik Sundar during and between the two conferences will serve to advance the above points.

Person C is nearing their 3rd year in the applied math PhD program. They emphasize the utility of the PIML conference in that (1) the breadth and experience present fascilitates the exploration of potential dissertation ideas, (2) the strong connections between UA and LANL insist that many of those in attendance will become collaborators. Additionally, they highlight that CNLS is constantly at the bleeding edge in applied mathematics so that (3) their attendance will contribute to an ongoing study of active topics in the field. In similar manner to Persons A and B, they are (4) excited by the strengthening of ties to LANL and the prospect of internships and future employment.

The University of Arizona, and specifically the Program in Applied Mathematics directly benefits from our attendance, as our immediate work in both of the conferences lays the foundation for future grants and research partnerships. More subtly, our engadgment continues to augment an already fertile relationship between the University and LANL. In particular, at LA--UA days, we - midway through our program - get to demonstrate to our peers and incoming graduate students, the wealth of possibilities in partnering with a national lab.

Because our iteneraries are largely individual, and because of the need to regularly travel between Los Alamos and Santa Fe, we will be driving individually. Based on quotes, this is in fact the cheaper option than flying Tucson-Albequerque and then renting a car. Therefore, our funds request is straightforward. Our total costs are: 

3x((mileage reimbursement)*mileage + 7 days @ hotel + registration fee for PIML conference + 7 days food)

which exceeds $1500/person. Therefore, we ask for $4500 total, to cover the travel itself, and we will pay out of pocket for meals.

We hope that we have impressed upon you the amount of opportunity this week in Los Alamos contains for each of us. The collaborations, presentations, and networking that we expect will surely advance each of our careers in field of physics-informed machine learning.
